# Team Meeting: 27 June 2019

_Present: Kirsten, Shailen, Schalk_

## How much capacity does each of us have to work on Diff related tasks?
- Schalk planning to dedicate every Thursday to Diff
- Kirsten usually spends Thursday working on Codebridge related work, so tentatively she will also schedule every Thursday for Diff related work.
- Shailen usually dedicates Thursday to Codebridge, so he is also happy to work on Diff during the day on a Thursday (he also mentioned that will work on Diff during weekends too)

## Is there space for the work we do at Diff to link into tech organisations corporate social investment programs?
- There is possible angle to frame some of our work as directed at CSI work that tech organisations are doing. Perhaps we can facilitate hackathons aimed at contributing to social good on behalf of tech organisations and their staff? Perhaps this can be a way to generate revenue to fund Diff programs?  
- Perhaps there is an opportunity to have tech organisations adopt a non-profit/social good organisation and provide them with tech services. For example maybe an organisation can volunteer to have their team attend a community evening/hackathon to work on their adopted cause/organisations. Alternatively, they can also commit to having an employee do a full day of digital work for their adoptee every number of months.
- If we do explore the above, we should be mindful to not disrupt existing relationships that causes/organisations have with IT/dev related individuals/organisations.

## What do we see as the core work that Diff does?
- We are in agreement that the work that Diff does should be of a supportive nature (in other words, play the role of a force-multiplier) instead of providing services directly to organisations/individuals under the banner of Diff. Diff will focus on supporting existing projects at the intersection between technology and social good - these can be existing, external projects or even projects initiated by Diff itself. However, we will be mindful to prioritise partnerships above sole-driven projects.
- The projects that Diff itself will initiate will be more of a facilitation/community-building/research nature, whereas Diff will seek to rather play a supporting role on projects that seek to make a concrete/direct impact. We seek first and foremost to empower those existing or willing individuals/team doing the work on the ground.

## What criteria do we use when determine who we partner with?
- We are in agreement that the for-profit/non-profit dichotomy is not helpful, since non-profit organisations are not exempt from doing social harm (for example Life Esidimeni) and for-profit organisations are able to do social good (for example Lumkani).
- We are in agreement that ‘social good’ as a good (and easily understandable) phrase/noun to describe the nature of the work that we want to promote and be involved in. This includes NPO’s, NGO’s, CBO’s, government, social enterprises, grassroot organisations and traditional tech teams wanting to be more mindful of their impact on the industry/the world.
- We feel there is a need to be pragmatic around the impact we create. I.e. We would rather have 30 tech organisations act in a considerably more ethical/socio-economic constructive manner than have only 3 organisations that go all-out and want to change the world.
- We believe that is challenging and takes courage to put yourself out there by trying to have a positive social aspect, and therefore we will rather err on the side of supporting projects/individuals in their endeavors than not when there is uncertainty.

## What are possible project ideas?
- **Civic-tech Matchmaking**: A program that facilitates techies in their search for the perfect social good project/organisation, or the latter in their search for a developer to help harness the opportunities that comes with technology. We feel that it is important that these connection emerge from a organic process of discussion/human-interaction instead of the result of looking through a directory. The latter tends to not result in sustained relationships/involvement.

## What would a working-prototype of a Diff manifesto look like?
- It is important to put the manifesto online in a space where it can be iterated on and be considered a living document (perhaps in a Github repository). Perhaps we can have a Github repository that contains all living documentation associated with Diff.

## What are important things to mention in the manifesto that all of us agree on?
- Diff is not about technology, it is about the humans involved in technology. It is about social good with technology as a starting point.
- We agree that projects/organisations are rarely purely good nor purely bad, however the more important question should be whether there is opportunity to have either of the former do less bad and more good through interaction with Diff?
- We commit ourselves to exploration, iteration, as well as the mustering of the moral courage to honestly identify/reflect and ask questions when we fall short. We want this not only to be reflected in the projects/teams that we partner with but in the way Diff itself is conducted.
- We believe in communities of practice of continual learning/exposure to new things. In order to accomplish this we commit ourselves to pro-actively seek out and amplify a diversity of voices in our projects and in the South African tech sector itself. We value the cross-pollination that happens across sectors and domains of practice. We will actively seek out to include more non-tech voices in discussions around technology.
- We believe the projects that we work on should give power and agency to people. We want to support technology that transforms, not technology that entrenches current social relations. This means that we commit ourselves to values of inclusivity, diversity and accesibility - specifically as espoused in the Open Source Definition and Contributor Covenant.
- We believe in the value of documentation, sharing findings and making sure that these findings can be accessed by as broad a range of individuals as possible. We will actively discourage anything that inhibits accessibility to information or limits the range of individuals that can make us of it.
- We believe that technology can also be destructive. Technology is changing society, and some of these changes are not for the better. We as active practitioners in the tech industry have a responsibility to mitigate and address the issues (even if unintended) brought about by the industry we find ourselves in. We also feel that it is important to be deliberate and responsible when designing new projects. Putting something new out into the world often has a ripple of effects.

## What are outcomes that we would like to achieve through our work via Diff?
- We want to re-frame the current culture of fear and suspicion associated with sharing information and work into one that sees sharing as an opportunity rather than a risk, and fittingly we can learn a lot from the Open Data movement in how to share in constructive manners, while mitigating possible negative outcomes.
- We want to advocate and work to change exploitative and destructive patterns currently present in the field of technology (both internally inside teams, and externally in regards to the public at large). We feel that humans should be considered as the starting point for any discussion/decisions around technology.
- We want to amplify the voices of underrepresented groups in the technology sector, and seek to understand the factors that lead to the under-representation of certain voices in the tech community - these can either be the result of cultural factors (non-fluency in English, stigmas around certain population group, etc.) or concrete (lack of physical access to venues where tech events are held, financial concerns, etc.). This also includes the voices of those from outside the tech sector.
- We want to change the recurring pattern of for-good projects starting with a lot of vigor and excitement, only to die out or stop being maintained. We want to understand and address the factors that contribute to the abandonment of tech projects for social good purposes. We want to also provide the former with the support and network to prevent projects from being abandoned.
- We want to address the lack of resources and literature around the intersection between technology and social good, and advocate for those interested in using technology for social good to apply prior learning to their projects. We also want to create an easy, systematic entry point into civic-technology/tech for social good for those interested in applying their practical tech skills to the greater South African good.
